Jews have lived in the Muslim world for
as long as Islam has existed in the
Muslim World anti-Semitism is the crime
of the West you have historic Jewish
communities in the Muslim world show me
that counterpart in the west it doesn't
exist taking Center Stage today is Dr
Omar suan an American Muslim scholar
civil rights leader writer and public
speaker he's the founder and president
of yakin Institute for Islamic Research
in today's episode he discusses the
oppression of pro Palestinian voices in
the west and the growing islamophobia
and how it lends itself to racism so the
world is witnessing the dehum
dehumanizing double standards when it
comes to Palestine and Palestinians this
is something that you speak about tell
us why it's so important for
you and why you feel like you need to
speak out about this
on a personal level it touches every
single fiber of my existence as a human
being you know they say you don't need
to be a Muslim to care about Palestine
or a Palestinian or an Arab you just
need to be human and I would hope to be
a decent human being and so any human
being I think seeing the atrocious
nature of the
occupation over years and years
unresolved the expansion of aggression
against an innocent defenseless people
would evoke a certain type of outrage
and empathy at the same
time as a Muslim I'm driven by my faith
the same faith that drives me to speak
out against the oppression of any group
of people the
starvation the uh murder the
oppression the robbing of just basic
Notions
of dignity you know when when Allah says
in the
Quran we start from the place that the
child of Adam is meant to be honored is
meant to be dignified and so as a
Muslim I am brought to the table because
of the sanctity of my brothers and
sisters in Palestine and of course the
particular sanctity of M AA in
Jerusalem and then as a Palestinian
every single SLE Palestinian in the
world has been touched by the initial
neba in some way we have generational
trauma either our parents were forcibly
displaced or we ourselves were forcibly
displaced either we still live in some
cutout isolated piece of land that we
can't call Palestine legally in the
international Arena and are reminded
daily of our status as an occupied
people without a Palestinian passport
and without the freedom of movement or
we live in other parts of the world and
do not have access to our parents' homes
to property that may still be registered
in our names or we are told in our
classrooms in our universities in our
workplaces that we don't exist
apparently so this touches every single
fiber of my exist istence as a human
being as a Muslim as a Palestinian and
of course as an American whose
government is complicit directly
complicit in
murdering people like myself and so it
touches every fiber of my existence at
no point is Palestine ever really
distant from me and it wasn't distant um
through your mother's poetry was it no
it was so I I've spoken about this
multiple times you know my earliest
memories are growing up watching my
mother in agony well she used to write
poetry about Palestine she used to write
poetry about Bosnia she used to write
poetry about Kashmir and there was
something very profound about my
mother's
poetry and I think about the symbolism
of the in Father about the collective
call for Liberation as a whole you know
we have all of these symbols and all
these images that are not entirely
unlike the stream of images that we're
getting right now out of Gazza but
people and items become Frozen in time
in the capacity of
Palestine my mother wrote a poem about
the stone The Rock which symbolizes our
struggle and uh she called
it the silent
Stone
this idea of the Revolutionary stone
that how dare you say that I am a silent
Stone I speak to the volumes of Decades
of my people's oppression and it really
hits home for me when I when I think of
the images you know we talk about
Muhammad being held by his father and
what that provoked in the world at the
time and I remember
particularly uh many of you can recall
the image of a young Fara in Gaza the
child in front of the tank David and
Goliath and our first computer that we
ever got that was the wallpaper of the
computer and then I came to realize that
Faris was a distant relative of mine
number one from the same family of
number
two I realized that some point in my
adult life I said you know that kid had
he lived would have been my my age now
he's speaking through that
picture on a on a regular basis through
his struggle but if he was alive he
would be speaking on panels and
protesting as an adult for the same
struggle that claimed his life back then
and so you have these Timeless pictures
these Timeless symbols that remind us
that until Palestine is free no
Palestinian will rest until Palestine is
free no muslim will feel comfortable
with their faith until Palestine is free
no human being will be content in the
realization of their Humanity until
Palestine is free we have to continue to
make sure that that stone speaks loudly
and that those children that have faced
the most brutal army in the world do not
stand up against that Tyrant
[Music]
alone what do you think is at the core
of this dehumanization by some towards
the Palestinians you know the
Palestinians represent the culmination
of various bigotries
against the Muslim World against Islam
against the Arab um against the other
especially in a western
context uh we're not just the villain uh
we're the most dangerous villain in the
movie We're not just the object of fear
in orientalist Play We Are the last boss
we're unfortunately framed in
islamophobia in the image of the Arab
Savage and we threaten by our very
existence a well-funded dominant racist
ideology that has lobbies and packs that
can unfortunately co-opt politicians
that otherwise might have been decent
human beings and suppress the voices or
seek to suppress the voices of thousands
and thousands and thousands of people
and so in our existence as
Palestinians we unfortunately just by
our existence can be other to where
we're a threat when we live amongst
other people and we're a threat when we
seek to live in our own land at the core
of it is the last breath of the
colonialism that has ravaged the side of
the world Israel is the last Colonial
project that exists in this part of the
world and in America's imperialism
Israel must exist to extend its
interests and expand in order to expand
its interests and that is what multiple
Scholars have said over
time and so by our existence we continue
to stand in the way of that and serve as
a viable obstacle on the way to
realizing that full Colonial project
that permanent base through which
America can can continue and Western
interests can continue to spread through
the region unhindered and unopposed we
know and these are the facts that the
story of Palestine is a story of
occupation it is a story of an occupied
people fighting against as you call it a
colonialist power but there's an attempt
by some to drive a wedge to turn it into
a religious War it's the Jews against
the Muslims is that divide deepening
these days do you think and you yourself
has been have been accused of
anti-Semitism despite you saying you've
gone out and stood in solidarity with
Jewish people in the United States tell
us about that and how it makes you feel
to be accused of anti-Semitism well look
you know first they try to redefine our
own terms and tell us how we can use
them as Muslims so the word Jihad needs
to be scrapped now because of your
misunderstanding of it the word Allah
the words allahar are threatening
because of your misunderstanding of it
and then they tell us that our words of
Liberation are in fact calls to genocide
so don't say intial anymore because the
word intial to you represents violence
and terrorism and then they try to
redefine their own framings of
anti-semitism
so that they can silence us when we
challenge the oppression against our
people and so you neither allow me to
speak in my own terms nor do you allow
me to defend myself against your
oppression and so at some point I think
we have come to the conclusion that we
are just not willing to operate in your
warped Twisted World we're not willing
to operate in your malicious framings we
we will defend the sanctity of our
people and we will stand with the
oppressed and the targeted and the
unfairly maligned wherever they are and
that means that you know what
if if there's genuine anti-Semitism in
front of me every single
time an innocent Jewish person or a
synagogue is targeted in the United
States I will be the first one to go and
stand on the basis of principle and
Justice and the sanctity of human life
to protect that life and in that same
breath of course I am going to stand for
the sanctity and the protection of my
own people a cause that has yielded my
being born in the United States in the
first place and so you don't get to rob
me of my own resistance by your
misapplied framings nor do you get to
mistranslate our movement nor do you get
to take away our terminology it's not
something that we accept accept anymore
as Palestinians wherever we live and so
we are
choosing to insist upon our maps to
insist upon our uh culture to insist
upon our existence and we will always be
free Palestinians that are longing for a
free Palestine no matter who stands in
the way and no matter what unfair
accusations are thrown towards us and
I'll say here because it's very
important
because I am a Palestinian
American I feel for my people in
Palestine and I also genuinely want good
from my neighbors and there are many
confused uninformed or misinformed
Americans in regards to Palestine in
regards to the war on Iraq in regards to
many of America's ugly Unholy Wars on
the Muslim world and in the Middle East
and I often challenge them by saying
that you know hundreds of thousands of
people people were killed in on the
basis of a lie the lie that there were
weapons of mass destruction can you tell
me the story of a single person that was
killed in your name and the answer is
almost always I don't know who they are
I can't name a single Iraqi I can't tell
you a single story when it comes to the
Palestinians when it comes to the
inability of the average American to see
through all of the years of
misinformation not only do they not know
the story of the Palestinian people but
they have unfortunately assigned a
propensity to violence to every single
Muslim in the world right so that brings
me to my next question religion is being
used as an excuse to justify the
suffering of peoples including now as we
see in Gaza how do you as a faith leader
uh not let Islam or Christianity or
Judaism become scapegoats in this way by
insisting on facts uh Jews have lived in
the Muslim world for as long as Islam
has existed in the Muslim world uh
anti-Semitism is the crime of the West
you have historic Jewish communities in
the Muslim world show me that
counterpart in the west it doesn't exist
Zionism is an inherently racist project
and in and of itself has a layer of
anti-em ISM to it because the idea was
to dispose in many ways of the Jewish
people from Europe and from the West
Palestinians did not just wake up one
day and start hating Jews Islam was not
the problem occupation is the problem if
Muslims came and kicked Palestinians out
of their land and established an illegal
State on their territory and mistreated
them the way that Israel is mistreating
them then we we would resist that Muslim
state so this has nothing to do with
religion that is based in not just a
lack of facts but based entirely in fear
and so religion cannot be scapegoated
nor should religion be used to continue
the war on the Palestinians mentioned uh
Senator Lindsey Graham who said that
Israel is in a religious war and I stand
with Israel
unapologetically so it's clearly not us
who have the the problem of religious
fanaticism in fact it is the speaker of
the house it is multiple members of
Congress it's the president of the
United States who stands
unapologetically as a Zionist and who
speaks with such disregard for
Palestinian Humanity that people in his
own country children are being
slaughtered in his own CH in his own
country and abroad because of his
inability to recognize when this
dehumanizing language starts from the
top does it then give free reign for
others to continue with this hateful
rhetoric absolutely uh look is that what
you're seeing in the United States yes
we have a president whose Legacy will be
genocide we call him genocide Joe for a
reason
so
um you can't you can't fight that evil
if you can't name it properly and it is
important for us to no longer
allow the Democratic party or a
Democratic president to say well I am
the lesser of the two evils how much
more evil can you get than an average of
10,000 civilians being killed a month
you don't get much more evil than that
and so we're not going to fall for it
anymore we will hold him accountable and
we look forward to holding every single
politician that has stood for this
genocide accountable com November 24
through the
election through the election in the US
yes okay through the
elections I'm not being a violent
Muslim why do you think this
anti-palestinian rhetoric and this
bigotry is not being dealt with perhaps
in the same way as other forms of
discrimination well we've been saying
for years that islamophobia is the only
uh acceptable form of bigotry in
the mainstream arena in the United
States politically socially culturally
you don't see people lose their jobs for
anti-palestinian bigotry that's before
this incredible assault on Humanity that
we're witnessing right now again I think
that it's the culmination of multiple
bigotries there has been an enormous
amount of funding that has been put into
the dehumanization of the Palestinians
and the suppression of any voice that
speaks to our humanity and so you have
kids that are getting booted from their
law firms that have their faces being
put on trucks that are getting kicked
out of their
schools and out of their companies
because of something that they tweeted
or posted or shared on social media 5 10
years ago but you have people that spew
the most repugnant form of
anti-palestinian bigotry and they just
get promoted in their jobs and in their
careers and so this is why we say that
anti- Palestinian bigotry is indeed an
extension of islamophobia even if not
all Palestinians are Muslims and in fact
the existence of Palestinian Christians
is a major obstacle to the framing of
this issue by these extremists why
because most Americans have no idea that
there are Palestinian Christians that
are living under this assault as well
there are Palestinian churches being
bombed so this confuses the average
American mind but with all of that being
said I think it's important for us as
well as Muslims to not fall for the
insincere
disingenuous voice that is supposed to
be against islamophobia yet extends
anti-palestinian bigotry whether that
comes from the president or for those
who have claimed to be our innerfaith
allies in the space of multifaith work
or on the ground I have said this to
multiple people when w was murdered
six-year-old boy in Chicago I heard from
people that I had not heard from
before uh his murder that extended their
condolences while at the same time their
social media and their voices and their
institutions were justifying the
genocide in Gaza and I made it a point
to say to each and every single one of
those voices and I say it here today
that if you have justified in your mind
the Eraser of this many any innocent
Palestinian civilians in
Palestine then you are an islamophobe
whether you like it or not and by your
definition of an islamophobe what's the
difference between a child in Gazza and
a child in Chicago and in fact what's
the difference between I a Palestinian
child and that child in Gazza had I been
born there and unable to escape that
same person that extended their sympathy
to me would have been justifying my
[Applause]
murder Dr AR SL man thank you we
appreciate your time much appreciate
thank
you